ENG-627: Docs for CloudCompute Mount Argument (#15182)
Lightning-AI/lightning: docs/source-app/workflows/mount_cloud_object_store.rst

:orphan:

######################################################
Mount Data From a Cloud Object Store to the Filesystem
######################################################

**Audience:** Users who want to read files stored in a Cloud Object Bucket in an app.

******************************
Mounting Public AWS S3 Buckets
******************************

=============================

> Configuring a Mount in a Work

Author: Mount will only work from a `Work` for the time being. even if we disconnect cloudcompute from a work it will not be available in Flows

> Configuring a Mount in a Work

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add Mount to a Work
```

=============================

To mount data from a cloud bucket to your app compute, initialize a ``Mount`` object with the source path and
the absolute directory path where it should be mounted and pass it to the ``CloudCompute`` it should be mounted on.

.. code:: python
    :emphasize-lines: 9-12

    import lightning as L
    from lightning_app import CloudCompute
    from lightning_app.storage import Mount

    class Flow(L.LightningFlow):
       def __init__(self):
           super().__init__()
           self.my_work = MyWorkClass(
               cloud_compute=CloudCompute(
                   mounts=Mount(
                       source="s3://ryft-public-sample-data/esRedditJson/",
                       mount_path="/content/esRedditJson/",
                   ),
               )
           )

       def run(self):
           self.my_work.run()

> You can also pass multiple mounts to a single work by passing a ``List[Mount(...), ...]`` to the

Reviewer: I would add notes here:

- Mounts are limited to 1M files.
- Mount objects should not be larger than 5 GB.
- When adding multiple mounts, each one should have a unique mount_path.

If we expand on the example above, we can see how you might go about listing and reading a file!

.. code:: python
    :emphasize-lines: 9-14

    import os

    import lightning as L
    from lightning_app import CloudCompute
    from lightning_app.storage import Mount

    class MyWorkClass(L.LightningWork):
       def run(self):
           files = os.listdir("/content/esRedditJson/")
           for file in files:
               print(file)

           with open("/content/esRedditJson/esRedditJson1", "r") as f:
               some_data = f.read()
               # do something with "some_data"...

    class Flow(L.LightningFlow):
       def __init__(self):
           super().__init__()
           self.my_work = MyWorkClass(
               cloud_compute=CloudCompute(
                   mounts=Mount(
                       source="s3://ryft-public-sample-data/esRedditJson/",
                       mount_path="/content/esRedditJson/",
                   ),
               )
           )

       def run(self):
           self.my_work.run()

The ``LightningWork`` component in the code above (``MyWorkClass``) would print out a list of files stored

> in the mounted s3 bucket & then read the contents of a file ``"esRedditJson1"``.

Reviewer: Add a note Mounts are read only, any operation ...

:orphan:

##############
Add Cloud Data
##############

**Audience:** Users who want to read files stored in a Cloud Object Bucket in an app.

******************************
Mounting Public AWS S3 Buckets
******************************

===================
Add Mount to a Work
===================

To mount data from a cloud bucket to your app compute, initialize a :class:`~lightning_app.storage.mount.Mount`
object with the source path of the s3 bucket and the absolute directory path where it should be mounted and
pass the :class:`~lightning_app.storage.mount.Mount` to the :class:`~lightning_app.utilities.packaging.cloud_compute.CloudCompute`
of the :class:`~lightning_app.core.work.LightningWork` it should be mounted on.

In this example, we will mount an S3 bucket: ``s3://ryft-public-sample-data/esRedditJson/`` to ``/content/esRedditJson/``.

> .. code:: python

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.. testcode::
```

Reviewer 2: if it can be executed locally

Reviewer 3: No @Borda, the MyWorkClass is not defined an there for illustration only. We don't need to execute this. This LGTM

        cloud_compute=CloudCompute(
            mounts=Mount(
                source="s3://ryft-public-sample-data/esRedditJson/",
                mount_path="/content/esRedditJson/",
            ),
        )
    )

You can also pass multiple mounts to a single work by passing a ``List[Mount(...), ...]`` to the
``CloudCompute(mounts=...)`` argument.

.. note::

    * Mounts supported up to 1 Million files, 5GB per file. Need larger mounts? Contact support@lightning.ai
    * When adding multiple mounts, each one should have a unique ``mount_path``.
    * A maximum of 10 :class:`~lightning_app.storage.mount.Mount`\s can be added to a :class:`~lightning_app.core.work.LightningWork`.

=======================
Read Files From a Mount
=======================

Once a :class:`~lightning_app.storage.mount.Mount` object is passed to :class:`~lightning_app.utilities.packaging.cloud_compute.CloudCompute`,
you can access, list, or read any file from the mount under the specified ``mount_path``, just like you would if it
was on your local machine.

Assuming your ``mount_path`` is ``"/content/esRedditJson/"`` you can do the following:

----------
Read Files
----------

> .. code:: python

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.. code-block:: python
```

:orphan:

################
Mount Cloud Data
################

**Audience:** Users who want to read files stored in a Cloud Object Bucket in an app.

******************************
Mounting Public AWS S3 Buckets
******************************

===================
Add Mount to a Work
===================

> To mount data from a cloud bucket to your app compute, initialize a :class:`~lightning_app.storage.mount.Mount`

Reviewer 4: this is a very long sentence

object with the source path of the s3 bucket and the absolute directory path where it should be mounted and
pass the :class:`~lightning_app.storage.mount.Mount` to the :class:`~lightning_app.utilities.packaging.cloud_compute.CloudCompute`
of the :class:`~lightning_app.core.work.LightningWork` it should be mounted on.

In this example, we will mount an S3 bucket: ``s3://ryft-public-sample-data/esRedditJson/`` to ``/content/esRedditJson/``.

.. code:: python
    :emphasize-lines: 9-12

    import lightning as L
    from lightning_app import CloudCompute
    from lightning_app.storage import Mount

    class Flow(L.LightningFlow):
       def __init__(self):
           super().__init__()
           self.my_work = MyWorkClass(

>                cloud_compute=CloudCompute(

Reviewer 5: Only need to show CloudCompute there, no need for the entire flow and work.

Reviewer: I agree, let's only keep 
```
           self.my_work = MyWorkClass(
               cloud_compute=CloudCompute(
                   mounts=Mount(
                       source="s3://ryft-public-sample-data/esRedditJson/",
                       mount_path="/content/esRedditJson/",

                   mounts=Mount(
                       source="s3://ryft-public-sample-data/esRedditJson/",

>                        mount_path="/content/esRedditJson/",

Reviewer 4: can this path be relative?

Author: nope. it needs to be absolute. an error is raised in the code if you don't

Reviewer 4: Can that be explicitly mentioned somewhere?

Reviewer: This should be the parameter autodoc too

                   ),
               )
           )

       def run(self):
           self.my_work.run()

You can also pass multiple mounts to a single work by passing a ``List[Mount(...), ...]`` to the
``CloudCompute(mounts=...)`` argument.

.. note::

>     * Mounts are limited to 1M files.

Reviewer 4: perhaps specify 1 Million explicitly?

Author: @edenlightning corrected 1,000,000 to this.

Reviewer 4: 1,000,000 is definitely bad but 1 Million is probably better than 1M but no strong opinion here

>     * Mounts are limited to 1M files.

Reviewer 5: This isn't clear to me. What does it mean limited? What happens if I do have 2M files

Author: This was worded this way at the suggestion of @edenlightning

Reviewer: We can add "Mounts supported up to 1 Million files, 5GB per file. Need larger mounts? Contact support@lightning.ai".

>     * Mount objects should not be larger than 5 GiB.

Reviewer 4: in total or each file?

Author: single file

Reviewer 4: Can that be explicit here?

Author: It was... and @edenlightning took the text away :)

>     * Mount objects should not be larger than 5 GiB.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
    * A file within the Mount should not exceed 5 GiB.
```

    * When adding multiple mounts, each one should have a unique ``mount_path``.
    * A maximum of 10 :class:`~lightning_app.storage.mount.Mount`\s can be added to a :class:`~lightning_app.core.work.LightningWork`.

=======================
Read Files From a Mount
=======================

Once a :class:`~lightning_app.storage.mount.Mount` object is passed to :class:`~lightning_app.utilities.packaging.cloud_compute.CloudCompute`,
you can access, list, or read any file from the mount under the specified ``mount_path``, just like you would if it
was on your local machine.

Assuming your ``mount_path`` is ``"/content/esRedditJson/"`` you can do the following:

----------
Read Files
----------

.. code:: python

    with open("/content/esRedditJson/esRedditJson1", "r") as f:
        some_data = f.read()

    # do something with "some_data"...

----------
List Files
----------

.. code:: python

    files = os.listdir("/content/esRedditJson/")

--------------------
See the Full Example
--------------------

.. code:: python
    :emphasize-lines: 10,15

    import os

>     import lightning as L

Reviewer 5: This can be read from the example files directly. No need for code duplication.

Author: This was included at the suggestion of @edenlightning

Reviewer: what example files? @tchaton

Reviewer: Agree we don't need this

In this example, we will mount an S3 bucket: ``s3://ryft-public-sample-data/esRedditJson/`` to ``/content/esRedditJson/``.

.. code:: python
    :emphasize-lines: 9-12

    import lightning as L
    from lightning_app import CloudCompute
    from lightning_app.storage import Mount

    class Flow(L.LightningFlow):
       def __init__(self):
           super().__init__()
           self.my_work = MyWorkClass(
               cloud_compute=CloudCompute(
                   mounts=Mount(
                       source="s3://ryft-public-sample-data/esRedditJson/",
                       mount_path="/content/esRedditJson/",
                   ),
               )
           )

       def run(self):
           self.my_work.run()

You can also pass multiple mounts to a single work by passing a ``List[Mount(...), ...]`` to the
``CloudCompute(mounts=...)`` argument.

.. note::

    * Mounts are limited to 1M files.
    * Mount objects should not be larger than 5 GiB.
    * When adding multiple mounts, each one should have a unique ``mount_path``.
    * A maximum of 10 :class:`~lightning_app.storage.mount.Mount`\s can be added to a :class:`~lightning_app.core.work.LightningWork`.

>     If the bucket prefix contains more than 1M files or a file greater than 5 GiB in size

Reviewer: This is an implementation detail, users don't need to read this, if they will try it it should just fail

:orphan:

##############################
Mount Data From a Cloud Bucket
##############################

**Audience:** Users who want to read files stored in a Cloud Object Bucket in an app.

******************************
Mounting Public AWS S3 Buckets
******************************

=============================
Configuring a Mount in a Work
=============================

> To mount data from a cloud bucket to your app compute, initialize a ``Mount`` object with the source path

Reviewer: Please use cross references to objects

```suggestion
To mount data from a cloud bucket to your app compute, initialize a :class:`~lightning_app.storage.mount.Mount` object with the source path
```

of the s3 bucket and the absolute directory path where it should be mounted and pass the ``Mount`` to the

> ``CloudCompute`` of the ``LightningWork`` it should be mounted on.

Reviewer: use refernces

In this example, we will mount an S3 bucket: ``s3://ryft-public-sample-data/esRedditJson/`` to ``/content/esRedditJson/``.

.. code:: python
    :emphasize-lines: 9-12

    import lightning as L
    from lightning_app import CloudCompute
    from lightning_app.storage import Mount

    class Flow(L.LightningFlow):
       def __init__(self):
           super().__init__()
           self.my_work = MyWorkClass(
               cloud_compute=CloudCompute(
                   mounts=Mount(
                       source="s3://ryft-public-sample-data/esRedditJson/",
                       mount_path="/content/esRedditJson/",
                   ),
               )
           )

       def run(self):
           self.my_work.run()

You can also pass multiple mounts to a single work by passing a ``List[Mount(...), ...]`` to the
``CloudCompute(mounts=...)`` argument.

.. note::

>     * We enforce a hard limit of ``1,000,000`` objects which we can mount from a particular bucket prefix.
>     * The maximum size of an object in the bucket can be no more than ``5 GiB``.
>     * If multiple mounts are configured for a single ``LightningWork``, then they must each specify unique
>       ``mount_path`` arguments (a unique mount point).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * Mounts are limited to 1M files.
  * Mount objects should not be larger than 5 GB.
  * When adding multiple mounts, each one should have a unique mount_path.
```

==============================

> Accessing Files From The Mount

Reviewer: Titles should be verbs
```suggestion
Read files from mount
```

==============================

> Once a ``Mount`` object is passed to ``CloudCompute``, you can access, list, or read any file from the mount

Reviewer: use refernces

under the specified ``mount_path``, just like you would if it was on your local machine.

Assuming you mount_path is ``"/content/esRedditJson/"`` you can do the following:

-----------

> List Files:

Reviewer: no need for semicolon
```suggestion
List Files
```

-----------

.. code:: python

    files = os.listdir("/content/esRedditJson/")

-----------

> Read Files:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Read Files
```

> Read Files:

Reviewer: read files should be first

-----------

.. code:: python

    with open("/content/esRedditJson/esRedditJson1", "r") as f:
        some_data = f.read()

    # do something with "some_data"...

---------------------
See the Full Example:
---------------------

.. code:: python
    :emphasize-lines: 9-14

    import os

    import lightning as L
    from lightning_app import CloudCompute
    from lightning_app.storage import Mount

    class MyWorkClass(L.LightningWork):
       def run(self):
           files = os.listdir("/content/esRedditJson/")
           for file in files:
               print(file)

           with open("/content/esRedditJson/esRedditJson1", "r") as f:
               some_data = f.read()
               # do something with "some_data"...

    class Flow(L.LightningFlow):
       def __init__(self):
           super().__init__()
           self.my_work = MyWorkClass(
               cloud_compute=CloudCompute(
                   mounts=Mount(
                       source="s3://ryft-public-sample-data/esRedditJson/",
                       mount_path="/content/esRedditJson/",
                   ),
               )
           )

       def run(self):
           self.my_work.run()

> The ``LightningWork`` component in the code above (``MyWorkClass``) would print out a list of files stored

Reviewer: Lets just call the class "ReadMount"
you ca add this as comment to the code snppet itself so its n context

.. note::

    When running a Lighting App on your local machine, any ``CloudCompute`` configuration (including a ``Mount``)
    is ignored at runtime. If you need access to these files on your local disk, you should download a copy of them
    to your machine.

.. note::

    Mounted files from an S3 bucket are ``read-only``. Any modifications, additions, or deletions
    to files in the mounted directory will not be reflected in the cloud object store.

===========
Limitations
===========

Currently the following limitations are enforced when using a ``Mount``:

* Mounted files from an S3 bucket are ``read-only``. Any modifications, additions, or deletions
  to files in the mounted directory will not be reflected in the cloud object store.
* Mounts can only be configured for a ``LightningWork``. Use in ``LightningFlow`` is not currently supported.
* We enforce a hard limit of ``1,000,000`` objects which we can mount from a particular bucket prefix.
* The maximum size of an object in the bucket can be no more than ``5 GiB``.
* If multiple mounts are configured for a single ``Work``, then they must each specify unique ``mount_path``
  arguments (a unique mount point).

> 

Reviewer: Not needed, we already added everything

.. note::

   If the bucket prefix contains more than ``1,000,000`` objects or a file greater than ``5 GiB`` in size
   then the ``LightningWork`` will fail to start before it even begins running on the cloud.

----

> 

Reviewer: this should be added to "Add a mount" section
